2025/README.md, before:

# [Advent of Code 2025](https://adventofcode.com/2025) (10/25 ✨)

## [Day 01: Secret Entrance](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/1) 🚪
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-01-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Gleam](day-01-gleam/src/aoc.gleam) ([tests](day-01-gleam/test/aoc_test.gleam))

## [Day 02: Gift Shop](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/2) 🎁
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-02-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Rust](day-02-rust/src/main.rs)

## [Day 03: Lobby](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/3) 🔋
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-03-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Haskell](day-03-haskell/src/Lib.hs) ([main](day-03-haskell/app/Main.hs), [tests](day-03-haskell/test/Spec.hs))
  - yay, recursion

## [Day 04: Printing Department](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/4) 🧻
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-04-python/aoc.py)
  - optimized from initially 167 ms to 60 ms by introducing a dirty set of
    positions to check each round

## [Day 05: Cafeteria](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/5) ☕
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-05-python/aoc.py)
  - interval merging

Commit message:

Add AoC 2025 day 06 (Python) to READMEs

2025/README.md, after:

# [Advent of Code 2025](https://adventofcode.com/2025) (12/25 ✨)

## [Day 01: Secret Entrance](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/1) 🚪
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-01-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Gleam](day-01-gleam/src/aoc.gleam) ([tests](day-01-gleam/test/aoc_test.gleam))

## [Day 02: Gift Shop](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/2) 🎁
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-02-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Rust](day-02-rust/src/main.rs)

## [Day 03: Lobby](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/3) 🔋
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-03-python/aoc.py)
  - ⭐⭐ [Haskell](day-03-haskell/src/Lib.hs) ([main](day-03-haskell/app/Main.hs), [tests](day-03-haskell/test/Spec.hs))
  - yay, recursion

## [Day 04: Printing Department](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/4) 🧻
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-04-python/aoc.py)
  - optimized from initially 167 ms to 60 ms by introducing a dirty set of
    positions to check each round

## [Day 05: Cafeteria](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/5) ☕
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-05-python/aoc.py)
  - interval merging

## [Day 06: Trash Compactor](https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/6) 🗑️
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-06-python/aoc.py)
  - slapping that good old `zip(*lines[::-1])` against the problem
