2024/README.md, before:

# [Advent of Code 2024](https://adventofcode.com/2024) (50/50 ✨)

**Languages: 15** *(Awk, Bash, C#, Dart, Elixir, Fortran, Gleam, Haskell, Idris,
Julia, Kotlin, Lua, MATLAB, 24 × Python, Vim)*

## [Day 01: Historian Hysteria](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/1) 📜
  - ⭐⭐ [**A**wk](day-01-awk/aoc.awk)
  - ⭐⭐ [Vim](../vim/2024/day-01/aoc.vim)

## [Day 02: Red-Nosed Reports](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/2) 🔴
  - ⭐⭐ [**B**ash](day-02-bash/aoc.bash)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-02-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 03: Mull It Over](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/3) ✖️
  - ⭐⭐ [**C**#](day-03-csharp/AoC.cs) ([tests](day-03-csharp/AoCTests.cs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-03-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 04: Ceres Search](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/4) 🔠
  - ⭐⭐ [**D**art](day-04-dart/lib/aoc.dart) 
    ([tests](day-04-dart/test/aoc_test.dart))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-04-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 05: Print Queue](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/5) 🖨️
  - ⭐⭐ [**E**lixir](day-05-elixir/lib/aoc.ex) 
    ([main](day-05-elixir/lib/main.ex),
    [tests](day-05-elixir/test/aoc_test.exs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-05-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 06: Guard Gallivant](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/6) 🛡️
  - ⭐⭐ [**F**ortran](day-06-fortran/aoc.f90)
    ([main](day-06-fortran/main.f90), [tests](day-06-fortran/tests.f90);
    reminder to myself: never use Fortran again or I'll go insane)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-06-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 07: Bridge Repair](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/7) 🌉
  - ⭐⭐ [**G**leam](day-07-gleam/src/aoc.gleam)
    ([tests](day-07-gleam/test/aoc_test.gleam))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-07-python/aoc.py) using
    [`itertools.product`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.product)
    and brute force (run time is ~1 second, so it's fine)

## [Day 08: Resonant Collinearity](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/8) 📡
  - ⭐⭐ [**H**askell](day-08-haskell/src/Lib.hs)
    ([main](day-08-haskell/app/Main.hs), [tests](day-08-haskell/test/Spec.hs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-08-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 09: Disk Fragmenter](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/9) 💾
  - ⭐⭐ [**I**dris 2](day-09-idris2/AoC.idr)
    ([main](day-09-idris2/Main.idr), [tests](day-09-idris2/Tests.idr))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-09-python/aoc.py) quite primitive solution with an array
    and index pointers; run time ~7 seconds

## [Day 10: Hoof It](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/10) 🌋
  - ⭐⭐ [**J**ulia](day-10-julia/src/AoC.jl)
    ([main](day-10-julia/src/main.jl), [tests](day-10-julia/test/runtests.jl))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-10-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 11: Plutonian Pebbles](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/11) 🪨
  - ⭐⭐ [**K**otlin](day-11-kotlin/app/src/main/kotlin/aoc/App.kt)
    ([tests](day-11-kotlin/app/src/test/kotlin/aoc/AppTest.kt))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-11-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 12: Garden Groups](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/12) 🪴
  - ⭐⭐ [**L**ua](day-12-lua/aoc.lua)
    ([tests](day-12-lua/aoc_spec.lua), [main](day-12-lua/main.lua))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-12-python/aoc.py) pretty tough part 2

## [Day 13: Claw Contraption](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/13) 🏗️
  - ⭐⭐ [**M**ATLAB](day-13-matlab/aoc.m) a bit slow, as computations are done
    with the [Octave Symbolic package](https://octave.sourceforge.io/symbolic/)
    (the part 2 result exceeds the limits of a unsigned 64-bit integer, which is
    the largest integer type in Octave; I couldn't find a package that only
    provides arbitrary precision integers)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-13-python/aoc.py) zomg math

## [Day 14: Restroom Redoubt](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/14) 🚽
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-14-python/aoc.py) Part 1 is simple modulo arithmetic, part
    2 was crazy; actually a cool puzzle to find something visually interesting
    programmatically. My initial solution was to stringify the grid after
    simulating each second and then check for the existence of a long horizontal
    line of robots. This was super slow (~ 40 sec). I then switched to a
    different approach, which works almost instantly: still iterating over a
    large range of seconds, I just check for the maximum number of _unique_
    robot positions. It's a bit lucky that this works, but the step with nice
    pictures in it was probably the base of the puzzle input and had all the
    robots in unique positions, while during simulation, there is always a high
    chance that at least a few robots will be in the same position.

## [Day 15: Warehouse Woes](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/15) 📦
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-15-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 16: Reindeer Maze](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/16) 🦌
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-16-python/aoc.py) Dijkstra with priority queue (part 1),
    BFS for nodes on all shortest paths (part 2)

## [Day 17: Chronospatial Computer](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/17) 🖥️
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-17-python/aoc.py) Part 1 is just simulating a CPU with
    some op codes, but part 2 was really wild. You have to find a register
    starting value that leads to the program outputting itself, turning it into
    a [quine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quine_(computing)). I had to take
    some hints to point me in the right direction here. Analyzing the decompiled
    program shows that the register is used in a loop to produce the output, and
    that only the lowest 3 bits of the registered are used per iteration. The
    register value is then shifted right by 3 bits. This allows to find the
    right starting value by trying bit triplets for each of the output digits.

## [Day 18: RAM Run](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/18) 🏃
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-18-python/aoc.py) Refreshingly easy day after the horrors
    of day 17 part 2. Part 1 is a simple shortest path search, part 2 is just
    checking when there is no more path, which can actually be brute forced in a
    very naive way, or sped up significantly by using a binary search.

## [Day 19: Line Layout](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/19) 🧵
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-19-python/aoc.py) recursion goes brrr

## [Day 20: Race Condition](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/20) 🏁
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-20-python/aoc.py) Very cool problem! Took some time to get
    to a part 2 solution that is fast enough, but the end result is fantastic
    and also solves part 2 easily.

## [Day 21: Keypad Conundrum](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/21) 🔢
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-21-python/aoc.py) dpad inception == pure horror

## [Day 22: Monkey Market](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/22) 🍌
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-22-python/aoc.py) quite relaxing and nice after the day 21
    insanity; part 2: sliding window with extra steps

## [Day 23: LAN Party](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/23) 🕹️
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-23-python/aoc.py) finding (maximum) cliques in a graph;
  initially got a super slow (~ 1 h) solution for part 2, then switched to the
  [Bron-Kerbosch
  algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bron%E2%80%93Kerbosch_algorithm),
  which is really fast for the given graph

## [Day 24: Crossed Wires](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/24) 🔀
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-24-python/aoc.py) wow, part 2 is one mess of a brute force
    solution, but it works (run time ~ 30 sec)

## [Day 25: Code Chronicle](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/25) 🔑
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-25-python/aoc.py)

Commit message:

Add visualize option to 2024 day 14 (Python)

2024/README.md, after:

# [Advent of Code 2024](https://adventofcode.com/2024) (50/50 ✨)

**Languages: 15** *(Awk, Bash, C#, Dart, Elixir, Fortran, Gleam, Haskell, Idris,
Julia, Kotlin, Lua, MATLAB, 24 × Python, Vim)*

## [Day 01: Historian Hysteria](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/1) 📜
  - ⭐⭐ [**A**wk](day-01-awk/aoc.awk)
  - ⭐⭐ [Vim](../vim/2024/day-01/aoc.vim)

## [Day 02: Red-Nosed Reports](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/2) 🔴
  - ⭐⭐ [**B**ash](day-02-bash/aoc.bash)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-02-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 03: Mull It Over](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/3) ✖️
  - ⭐⭐ [**C**#](day-03-csharp/AoC.cs) ([tests](day-03-csharp/AoCTests.cs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-03-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 04: Ceres Search](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/4) 🔠
  - ⭐⭐ [**D**art](day-04-dart/lib/aoc.dart) 
    ([tests](day-04-dart/test/aoc_test.dart))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-04-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 05: Print Queue](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/5) 🖨️
  - ⭐⭐ [**E**lixir](day-05-elixir/lib/aoc.ex) 
    ([main](day-05-elixir/lib/main.ex),
    [tests](day-05-elixir/test/aoc_test.exs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-05-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 06: Guard Gallivant](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/6) 🛡️
  - ⭐⭐ [**F**ortran](day-06-fortran/aoc.f90)
    ([main](day-06-fortran/main.f90), [tests](day-06-fortran/tests.f90);
    reminder to myself: never use Fortran again or I'll go insane)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-06-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 07: Bridge Repair](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/7) 🌉
  - ⭐⭐ [**G**leam](day-07-gleam/src/aoc.gleam)
    ([tests](day-07-gleam/test/aoc_test.gleam))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-07-python/aoc.py) using
    [`itertools.product`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html#itertools.product)
    and brute force (run time is ~1 second, so it's fine)

## [Day 08: Resonant Collinearity](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/8) 📡
  - ⭐⭐ [**H**askell](day-08-haskell/src/Lib.hs)
    ([main](day-08-haskell/app/Main.hs), [tests](day-08-haskell/test/Spec.hs))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-08-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 09: Disk Fragmenter](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/9) 💾
  - ⭐⭐ [**I**dris 2](day-09-idris2/AoC.idr)
    ([main](day-09-idris2/Main.idr), [tests](day-09-idris2/Tests.idr))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-09-python/aoc.py) quite primitive solution with an array
    and index pointers; run time ~7 seconds

## [Day 10: Hoof It](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/10) 🌋
  - ⭐⭐ [**J**ulia](day-10-julia/src/AoC.jl)
    ([main](day-10-julia/src/main.jl), [tests](day-10-julia/test/runtests.jl))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-10-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 11: Plutonian Pebbles](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/11) 🪨
  - ⭐⭐ [**K**otlin](day-11-kotlin/app/src/main/kotlin/aoc/App.kt)
    ([tests](day-11-kotlin/app/src/test/kotlin/aoc/AppTest.kt))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-11-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 12: Garden Groups](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/12) 🪴
  - ⭐⭐ [**L**ua](day-12-lua/aoc.lua)
    ([tests](day-12-lua/aoc_spec.lua), [main](day-12-lua/main.lua))
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-12-python/aoc.py) pretty tough part 2

## [Day 13: Claw Contraption](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/13) 🏗️
  - ⭐⭐ [**M**ATLAB](day-13-matlab/aoc.m) a bit slow, as computations are done
    with the [Octave Symbolic package](https://octave.sourceforge.io/symbolic/)
    (the part 2 result exceeds the limits of a unsigned 64-bit integer, which is
    the largest integer type in Octave; I couldn't find a package that only
    provides arbitrary precision integers)
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-13-python/aoc.py) zomg math

## [Day 14: Restroom Redoubt](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/14) 🚽
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-14-python/aoc.py) Part 1 is simple modulo arithmetic, part
    2 was crazy; actually a cool puzzle to find something visually interesting
    programmatically. My initial solution was to stringify the grid after
    simulating each second and then check for the existence of a long horizontal
    line of robots. This was super slow (~ 40 sec). I then switched to a
    different approach, which works almost instantly: still iterating over a
    large range of seconds, I just check for the maximum number of _unique_
    robot positions. It's a bit lucky that this works, but the second with the
    hidden picture was probably the base of the puzzle input and had all the
    robots in unique positions, while during simulation, there is always a high
    chance that at least a few robots will overlap.  
    Part 2 solution can be seen when running the script with the `--visualize`.

## [Day 15: Warehouse Woes](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/15) 📦
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-15-python/aoc.py)

## [Day 16: Reindeer Maze](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/16) 🦌
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-16-python/aoc.py) Dijkstra with priority queue (part 1),
    BFS for nodes on all shortest paths (part 2)

## [Day 17: Chronospatial Computer](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/17) 🖥️
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-17-python/aoc.py) Part 1 is just simulating a CPU with
    some op codes, but part 2 was really wild. You have to find a register
    starting value that leads to the program outputting itself, turning it into
    a [quine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quine_(computing)). I had to take
    some hints to point me in the right direction here. Analyzing the decompiled
    program shows that the register is used in a loop to produce the output, and
    that only the lowest 3 bits of the registered are used per iteration. The
    register value is then shifted right by 3 bits. This allows to find the
    right starting value by trying bit triplets for each of the output digits.

## [Day 18: RAM Run](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/18) 🏃
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-18-python/aoc.py) Refreshingly easy day after the horrors
    of day 17 part 2. Part 1 is a simple shortest path search, part 2 is just
    checking when there is no more path, which can actually be brute forced in a
    very naive way, or sped up significantly by using a binary search.

## [Day 19: Line Layout](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/19) 🧵
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-19-python/aoc.py) recursion goes brrr

## [Day 20: Race Condition](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/20) 🏁
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-20-python/aoc.py) Very cool problem! Took some time to get
    to a part 2 solution that is fast enough, but the end result is fantastic
    and also solves part 2 easily.

## [Day 21: Keypad Conundrum](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/21) 🔢
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-21-python/aoc.py) dpad inception == pure horror

## [Day 22: Monkey Market](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/22) 🍌
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-22-python/aoc.py) quite relaxing and nice after the day 21
    insanity; part 2: sliding window with extra steps

## [Day 23: LAN Party](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/23) 🕹️
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-23-python/aoc.py) finding (maximum) cliques in a graph;
  initially got a super slow (~ 1 h) solution for part 2, then switched to the
  [Bron-Kerbosch
  algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bron%E2%80%93Kerbosch_algorithm),
  which is really fast for the given graph

## [Day 24: Crossed Wires](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/24) 🔀
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-24-python/aoc.py) wow, part 2 is one mess of a brute force
    solution, but it works (run time ~ 30 sec)

## [Day 25: Code Chronicle](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/25) 🔑
  - ⭐⭐ [Python](day-25-python/aoc.py)
