2016/README.md, before:

# [Advent of Code 2016](https://adventofcode.com/2016)

- [Day 01](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/1) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-01/aoc-2016-01.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-01/aoc-2016-01.commented.vim))
- [Day 02](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/2) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-02/aoc-2016-02.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-02/aoc-2016-02.commented.vim))
- [Day 03](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/3) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-03/aoc-2016-03.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-03/aoc-2016-03.commented.vim))
- [Day 04](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/4) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-04/aoc-2016-04.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-04/aoc-2016-04.commented.vim))
- [Day 05](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/5) ⭐⭐ in
  - [Gleam](./day-05-gleam/src/aoc_2016_day_05.gleam)
    ([tests](./day-05-gleam/test/aoc_2016_day_05_test.gleam))
  - [Rust](./day-05-rust/src/main.rs)
  - I was curious if Rust would be faster than Gleam for this problem. It was,
    but not much. Gleam runs ~26 sec, while Rust runs ~19 sec. It probably comes
    down to how performant the MD5 implementations are.
- [Day 06](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/5) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-06/aoc-2016-06.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-06/aoc-2016-06.commented.vim))

Commit message:

Add 2016 day 07 in Haskell to READMEs

2016/README.md, after:

# [Advent of Code 2016](https://adventofcode.com/2016)

- [Day 01](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/1) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-01/aoc-2016-01.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-01/aoc-2016-01.commented.vim))
- [Day 02](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/2) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-02/aoc-2016-02.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-02/aoc-2016-02.commented.vim))
- [Day 03](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/3) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-03/aoc-2016-03.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-03/aoc-2016-03.commented.vim))
- [Day 04](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/4) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-04/aoc-2016-04.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-04/aoc-2016-04.commented.vim))
- [Day 05](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/5) ⭐⭐ in
  - [Gleam](./day-05-gleam/src/aoc_2016_day_05.gleam)
    ([tests](./day-05-gleam/test/aoc_2016_day_05_test.gleam))
  - [Rust](./day-05-rust/src/main.rs)
  - I was curious if Rust would be faster than Gleam for this problem. It was,
    but not much. Gleam runs ~26 sec, while Rust runs ~19 sec. It probably comes
    down to how performant the MD5 implementations are.
- [Day 06](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/6) ⭐⭐ in
  [Vim](../vim/2016/day-06/aoc-2016-06.vim)
  ([commented](../vim/2016/day-06/aoc-2016-06.commented.vim))
- [Day 07](https://adventofcode.com/2016/day/7) ⭐⭐ in Haskell
  ([Main.hs](./day-07-haskell/app/Main.hs),
  **[Lib.hs](./day-07-haskell/src/Lib.hs)**,
  [Spec.hs](./day-07-haskell/test/Spec.hs))
