2023/day-23/README.md, before:

# Advent of Code 2023 Day 23: A Long Walk

All scripts (`run.sh`, `sample.sh`, `watch*.sh`) accept an optional
`--visualize` flag to print the trail maze and the found paths to the terminal.

For the sample, the initial empty maze is printed, followed by each individual
found path. Finally, the longest path is shown.

For the real input, given its size, only the longest path is printed. The
representation is also a bit different, as you'll probably want to zoom out to
see more of the whole maze at once.

## Sample

The yellow crosses show starting positions of paths yet to be explored.

![Day 23 sample, empty maze](viz/sample-0-map.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #1](viz/sample-1.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #2](viz/sample-2.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #3](viz/sample-3.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #4](viz/sample-4.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #5](viz/sample-5.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #6](viz/sample-6.png)
![Day 23 sample, longest path](viz/sample-7-longest.png)

## Real Input

![Day 23 input, longest path](viz/input-longest.png)

Commit message:

Add 2023 day 23 part 2 in Python
Former-commit-id: 2475c7d403652d497d0e76dde630d7c0193cfca8

2023/day-23/README.md, after:

# Advent of Code 2023 Day 23: A Long Walk

Part 1 was initially solved by brute-forcing all possible paths. At that time,
there was some visualization code that was very helpful in debugging – and
produced some nice images.

Even though part 2 required a complete rewrite, the pictures of the paths from
part 1 are still here to enjoy.

The visualization code can be found in
[Git commit `5b7335b`](https://github.com/yogan/advent-of-code/blob/5b7335be31b34e8fae805e23593c548ed9fc3179/2023/day-23/day23.py#L75).

The [updated code](https://github.com/yogan/advent-of-code/blob/main/2023/day-23/day23.py)
that solves both parts operates on a graph of the maze, and therefore no longer
has complete paths to visualize. A description of the algorithm can be found in
the [main project README](../../README.md).


## Sample

The yellow crosses show starting positions of paths yet to be explored.

![Day 23 sample, empty maze](viz/sample-0-map.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #1](viz/sample-1.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #2](viz/sample-2.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #3](viz/sample-3.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #4](viz/sample-4.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #5](viz/sample-5.png)
![Day 23 sample, path #6](viz/sample-6.png)
![Day 23 sample, longest path](viz/sample-7-longest.png)

## Real Input

![Day 23 input, longest path](viz/input-longest.png)
